Nest configurations under a tabs and accordions, update graphql, conv… (#9090)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/user-guide/core-data-model/dcim/deviceredundancygroup.md

!!! note
    Unlike a Virtual Chassis, there is no master concept and interfaces are never surfaced on a peer device. Each member remains a fully independent device in Nautobot — with its own interfaces, inventory, configuration, and primary IP — reflecting that each unit is managed on its own. Which unit is "primary" is conveyed by `device_redundancy_group_priority`, but Nautobot only stores this integer — it does not elect a primary or define whether higher or lower wins. Your automation assigns the meaning, so pick a convention and document it.

TODO: Review this as our final recommendation

> LAG interfaces cannot span members of a Device Redundancy Group; a LAG and its member interfaces must belong to the same device (or the same virtual chassis). For multi-chassis technologies such as vPC or MLAG, the recommendation is to model a port channel on each member individually, then tie the pair together with an [Interface Redundancy Group](interfaceredundancygroup.md): create one group per multi-chassis port channel, assign each member's LAG interface to it with a priority, and record the vPC/MLAG domain or pair ID in `protocol_group_id` — the cross-vendor redundancy identifier (vPC domain, MLAG domain, cluster ID) that config templates read to render the domain/group lines. As users, we recommend giving the LAG the same name on both members (e.g. `Port-Channel10` on each switch) to match how the technology is typically configured, however this is not enforced nor is any configuration synced. The Interface Redundancy Group is the only thing in the data model relating them to each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LAG interfaces cannot span members of a Device Redundancy Group; a LAG and its member interfaces must belong to the same device (or the same virtual chassis). For multi-chassis technologies such as vPC or MLAG, the recommendation is to model a port channel on each member individually, then tie the pair together with an [Interface Redundancy Group](interfaceredundancygroup.md): create one group per multi-chassis port channel, assign each member's LAG interface to it with a priority, and record the vPC/MLAG domain or pair ID in `protocol_group_id` — the cross-vendor redundancy identifier (vPC domain, MLAG domain, cluster ID) that config templates read to render the domain/group lines. As users, we recommend giving the LAG the same name on both members (e.g. `Port-Channel10` on each switch) to match how the technology is typically configured; however, this is not enforced nor is any configuration synced. The Interface Redundancy Group is the only thing in the data model relating them to each other.
```

> An Interface Redundancy Group does not change or take over the interfaces themselves — each member's LAG remains an ordinary, independently configured interface on its own device. What the group models is the relationship between them: two separately configured interfaces that present a single logical entity to the rest of the network. The `protocol` field is meant for first hop redundancy protocols such as VRRP, not for link aggregation protocols such as LACP; leave it blank when grouping port channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Interface Redundancy Group does not change or take over the interfaces themselves — each member's LAG remains an ordinary, independently configured interface on its own device. What the group models is the relationship between them: two separately configured interfaces that present a single logical entity to the rest of the network. The `protocol` field is meant for first hop redundancy protocols (FHRP) such as VRRP, not for link aggregation protocols such as LACP; leave it blank when grouping port channels.
```

> The below Python snippet is intended to work as you drop in to your iPython shell or file. It levergages the public demo. In addition, you can update the first set of variables to more easily integrate with other systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below Python snippet is intended to work by dropping it into a iPython shell or file. It leverages the public demo sandbox. In addition, you can update the first set of variables to more easily integrate with other systems.
```

            ip_address_assignments:
              - ip_address:
                  "!create_or_update:address": "192.168.1.21/24"
                  "!create_or_update:parent": "!ref:mgmt_prefix"
                  status__name: "Active"
          - "!create_or_update:name": "GigabitEthernet0/3"
            type: "1000base-t"
            status__name: "Active"
            description: "Failover physical parent"
            "!ref": "rt02_failover_parent"
          - "!create_or_update:name": "failover-link"
            type: "virtual"
            status__name: "Active"
            parent_interface: "!ref:rt02_failover_parent"
            description: "HA failover link"
            ip_address_assignments:
              - ip_address:
                  "!create_or_update:address": "172.27.48.1/31"
                  "!create_or_update:parent": "!ref:failover_prefix"
                  status__name: "Active"
        # `!get` looks the address up after the interface and its IP exist; `deferred`
        # waits until the device is saved before assigning it.
        primary_ip4:
          "!get:address": "192.168.1.21/24"
          deferred: true
    ```

> ## GraphQL

Reviewer: Make sense to do the show/minimized option for these as well?  Just like we're now doing in the pynautobot/DB examples above?

=== "Firewall HA pair"

    Operating systems and technologies include Palo Alto, Fortinet, and Cisco ASA

    ```jinja2
    {% set group = data.device_redundancy_groups[0] %}
    {% set ordered = group.devices | sort(attribute="device_redundancy_group_priority", reverse=true) %}
    {% set primary = ordered | first %}
    {% for device in ordered %}
    {% set peer = group.devices | rejectattr("name", "equalto", device.name) | first %}
    # ~~~~~ {{ device.name }} ({{ "Primary/Active" if device.name == primary.name else "Secondary/Standby" }}) ~~~~~

    ## Failover Config

    failover
    failover lan unit {{ "primary" if device.name == primary.name else "secondary" }}
    {% for link in device.failover_links %}
    failover lan interface FAILOVER {{ link.name }}
    failover interface ip FAILOVER {{ link.ip_addresses[0].host }} {{ link.ip_addresses[0].mask_length | netmask }} standby {{ peer.failover_links[0].ip_addresses[0].host }}
    {% endfor %}
    {% endfor %}
    ```

    !!! note
        The secondary unit receives the full running config from the primary after the failover link is established; interface IPs need not be set manually

> === "HA pairs"

Reviewer: Researching it a bit:

1. Both units
```
 tmsh
# 1. Create the dedicated HA/Heartbeat VLAN
create net vlan VLAN_HA interfaces add { 1.3 }

# 2. Configure the Non-Floating Self IPs for HA and internal/external traffic
create net self IP_HA_LOCAL/24 vlan VLAN_HA allow-service default
create net self IP_INT_LOCAL/24 vlan VLAN_INTERNAL allow-service default

# 3. Specify the local Device Connectivity properties
modify cm device LTM_LOCAL_HOSTNAME configsync-ip IP_HA_LOCAL
modify cm device LTM_LOCAL_HOSTNAME unicast-addresses { { ip IP_HA_LOCAL } { ip IP_MGMT_LOCAL } }
modify cm device LTM_LOCAL_HOSTNAME mirror-ip IP_HA_LOCAL

```
2.  Primary unit only (device trust)
```
# Add Unit-2 into the Device Trust
modify cm trust-domain /Common/Root add-device { device-ip IP_MGMT_PEER username admin password PEER_PASSWORD }
```
3. Primary unit only (Failover Group)
```
# Create a Sync-Failover group containing both devices
create cm device-group HA_SYNC_FAILOVER_GROUP { devices add { LTM_UNIT1_HOSTNAME LTM_UNIT2_HOSTNAME } type sync-failover network-failover enabled }

```
4. Primary unit only (Initial sync)
```
# Perform a full manual sync from Unit-1 to the device group
run cm config-sync to-group HA_SYNC_FAILOVER_GROUP
```

5. Primary unit only (Floating IP)
```
# Create floating IPs mapped to the default traffic-group-1
create net self IP_INT_FLOATING/24 vlan VLAN_INTERNAL traffic-group traffic-group-1
create net self IP_EXT_FLOATING/24 vlan VLAN_EXTERNAL traffic-group traffic-group-1

# Final Sync to push floating configurations to Unit-2
run cm config-sync to-group HA_SYNC_FAILOVER_GROUP
```

I'll try to templatize them and validate graphql can get that data today.

Reviewer: Actual example we can use for templatizing

======== Build IPAM Info =====
subnet: 192.0.2.0/24
bigip1: mgmt_ip 192.0.2.10
bigip2: mgmt_ip 192.0.2.11

external_subnet: 203.0.113.0/25
internal_subnet: 203.0.113.128/25

vip_subnet: 198.51.100.0/24
bigip1: ha_ip 198.51.100.10
bigip2: ha_ip 198.51.100.11

======== bigip1 configuration =====

modify sys global-settings hostname bigip1.example.com
mv cm device bigip1 bigip1.example.com

create net vlan external interfaces add { 1.1 }
create net vlan HA interfaces add { 1.2 }
create net vlan internal interfaces add { 1.3 }

create net self external-self address 203.0.113.10/25 vlan external
create net self HA-self address 198.51.100.10/24 vlan HA
create net self internal-self address 203.0.113.140/25 vlan internal

modify cm device bigip1.example.com configsync-ip 198.51.100.10
modify cm device bigip1.example.com unicast-address { { ip 198.51.100.10 } { ip 192.0.2.10 } }
modify cm device bigip1.example.com mirror-ip 198.51.100.10

modify cm trust-domain Root ca-devices add { 192.0.2.11 } name bigip2.example.com username admin password <peer-admin-password>
create cm device-group HA-group devices add { bigip1.example.com bigip2.example.com } type sync-failover auto-sync enabled network-failover enabled
run cm config-sync to-group HA-group

create net self external-float address 203.0.113.20/25 vlan external traffic-group traffic-group-1
create net self internal-float address 203.0.113.150/25 vlan internal traffic-group traffic-group-1

======== bigip2 configuration =====
modify sys global-settings hostname bigip2.example.com
mv cm device bigip2 bigip2.example.com

create net vlan external interfaces add { 1.1 }
create net vlan HA interfaces add { 1.2 }
create net vlan internal interfaces add { 1.3 }

create net self external-self address 203.0.113.11/25 vlan external
create net self HA-self address 198.51.100.11/24 vlan HA
create net self internal-self address 203.0.113.141/25 vlan internal

modify cm device bigip2.example.com configsync-ip 198.51.100.11
modify cm device bigip2.example.com unicast-address { { ip 198.51.100.11 } { ip 192.0.2.11 } }
modify cm device bigip2.example.com mirror-ip 198.51.100.11

Author: Just making sure you know that there is already a script in these docs that allows you to run test this locally

    Operating systems and technologies include F5 BIG-IP, A10 Thunder, Viptela, Versa, and Silver Peak

    # TODO: Review this configuration

    ```jinja2
    {% set group = data.device_redundancy_groups[0] %}
    {% for device in group.devices %}
    {% set peer = group.devices | rejectattr("name", "equalto", device.name) | first %}
    # ~~~~~ {{ device.name }} ~~~~~

    ## Standard Global Config

    # Set the sync address (HA self-IP)
    modify cm device {{ device.name }} { configsync-ip {{ device.primary_ip4.address.split("/")[0] }} }
    # Add the peer to the device trust
    run cm add-to-trust wire-address {{ peer.primary_ip4.address.split("/")[0] }} user admin

    # Create the sync-failover device group
    create cm device-group {{ group.name }} { devices { {{ group.devices | map(attribute="name") | join(" ") }} } type sync-failover }
    {% endfor %}
    ```

## Generating the Configuration

> The script below renders the templates against GrpahQl query. Paste the GraphQL query from the [GraphQL](#graphql) section into a variable called `GRAPHQL_QUERY`, and one of the three templates above into `CLI_CONFIG_TEMPLATE`. This script is a continuation of the prior script above and assumes the variables `nb`, `NAUTOBOT_URL`, and `NAUTOBOT_TOKEN` are already set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script below renders the templates against GraphQL query. Paste the GraphQL query from the [GraphQL](#graphql) section into a variable called `GRAPHQL_QUERY`, and one of the three templates above into `CLI_CONFIG_TEMPLATE`. This script is a continuation of the prior script above and assumes the variables `nb`, `NAUTOBOT_URL`, and `NAUTOBOT_TOKEN` are already set.
```
